README.md, before:

# Autonomous Multi-Agent Security & Operations Platform

This repository scaffolds a multi-agent security monitoring and operations platform built around a layered agent ecosystem and a control plane for governance and oversight. It is implemented on top of Google ADK.

## What is implemented now
- Full project layout with ADK-based agents across all layers
- Shared models, tools, and utilities with minimal working stubs
- ADK Runner orchestration with session handling
- Configuration and policy scaffolding

## Quick start (local)
1. Create a virtual environment and install dependencies.
2. Set your Gemini API key (ADK uses Gemini by default).
3. Run the sample orchestrator demo.

Example:
```bash
python -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m secops_platform.orchestrator.orchestrator
```

Configure variables in `/Users/nishant/Projects/0VRW4TCH/.env` before running.
Use `not_available` (or `none`) for values not present on a given server.

## Session storage
By default, the orchestrator uses ADK's `DatabaseSessionService` with a local SQLite file at `./data/adk_sessions.db`.
Set `ADK_SESSION_DB_URL` to use a different backend (for example PostgreSQL with an async driver), or set
`ADK_SESSION_DB_PATH` to change the default SQLite file path.

Examples:
```bash
export ADK_SESSION_DB_URL=\"sqlite+aiosqlite:///./data/adk_sessions.db\"
export ADK_SESSION_DB_URL=\"postgresql+asyncpg://secops:secops@localhost:5432/secops\"
```

## Memory (long-term recall)
ADK memory is separate from session state. By default we use an in-memory memory service for local development.
To persist memory across runs, use Vertex AI Memory Bank and set the required environment variables.

Examples:
```bash
export ADK_MEMORY_BACKEND=\"in_memory\"

export ADK_MEMORY_BACKEND=\"vertex\"
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=\"your-gcp-project\"
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=\"us-central1\"
export ADK_AGENT_ENGINE_ID=\"your-agent-engine-id\"
```

Set `ADK_PRELOAD_MEMORY=true` to preload memories into the context automatically.

## Live Metrics Backend
`system_health` can query Prometheus or VictoriaMetrics generically. Set one of:
- `METRICS_BACKEND_URL`
- `PROMETHEUS_URL`
- `VICTORIAMETRICS_URL`

Optional auth:
- `METRICS_BEARER_TOKEN`

Optional per-metric query overrides:
- `METRIC_QUERY_CPU_USAGE_PERCENT`
- `METRIC_QUERY_MEMORY_USAGE_PERCENT`
- `METRIC_QUERY_DISK_USAGE_PERCENT`
- `METRIC_QUERY_NETWORK_IO_MBPS`
- `METRIC_QUERY_REQUEST_P95_MS`
- `METRIC_QUERY_ERROR_RATE_PERCENT`

Example:
```bash
export METRICS_BACKEND_URL="http://your-prometheus:9090"
export METRICS_BEARER_TOKEN="your-token-if-needed"
```

## Structure
- `agents/`: Agent implementations organized by layer
- `shared/`: Shared models, tools, and utilities
- `secops_platform/`: Non-ADK services (orchestrator, API, security)
- `config/`: Environment settings and policy files
- `deployment/`: Kubernetes, Helm, Terraform, Docker
- `docs/`: Architecture and integration docs

## Notes
- Set `ADK_MODEL` to override the default model (`gemini-2.5-flash-lite`).
- Agent definitions and instructions are Python-only under `agents/` (no YAML mirror).
- Extend each agent’s tools to integrate real data sources and actions.
- Output contracts are defined in `0VRW4TCH/shared/models/contracts.py` and used by root/system-health prompts for standardized JSON responses.

Commit message:

removed unused agent, and improve monitoring

README.md, after:

# Autonomous Multi-Agent Security & Operations Platform

This repository scaffolds a multi-agent security monitoring and operations platform built around a layered agent ecosystem and a control plane for governance and oversight. It is implemented on top of Google ADK.

## What is implemented now
- Focused ADK-based monitoring stack for asset discovery, system health, anomaly detection, and vulnerability checks
- Shared models, tools, and utilities with minimal working stubs
- ADK Runner orchestration with session handling
- Configuration and policy scaffolding

## Active agents (current focus)
- `scope_scanner`: discovers in-scope assets/services and monitoring targets
- `system_health`: evaluates runtime health and monitoring/security coverage
- `anomaly_detector`: scores anomalies and surfaces evidence-backed findings
- `vulnerability_assessor`: runs targeted security scan checks for discovered risk areas

## Optional Tooling Behavior
- Discovery and security scans are best-effort: missing tools (for example `kubectl`, `aws`, `gcloud`, `az`, `falco`, `osqueryi`, `trivy`, `nmap`) do not fail execution.
- The platform returns partial results with explicit `missing_tools`, `warnings`, and source status fields so you can operate across heterogeneous servers.

## Quick start (local)
1. Create a virtual environment and install dependencies.
2. Set your Gemini API key (ADK uses Gemini by default).
3. Run the sample orchestrator demo.

Example:
```bash
python -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python -m secops_platform.orchestrator.orchestrator
```

Configure variables in `/Users/nishant/Projects/0VRW4TCH/.env` before running.
Use `not_available` (or `none`) for values not present on a given server.

## Session storage
By default, the orchestrator uses ADK's `DatabaseSessionService` with a local SQLite file at `./data/adk_sessions.db`.
Set `ADK_SESSION_DB_URL` to use a different backend (for example PostgreSQL with an async driver), or set
`ADK_SESSION_DB_PATH` to change the default SQLite file path.

Examples:
```bash
export ADK_SESSION_DB_URL=\"sqlite+aiosqlite:///./data/adk_sessions.db\"
export ADK_SESSION_DB_URL=\"postgresql+asyncpg://secops:secops@localhost:5432/secops\"
```

## Memory (long-term recall)
ADK memory is separate from session state. By default we use an in-memory memory service for local development.
To persist memory across runs, use Vertex AI Memory Bank and set the required environment variables.

Examples:
```bash
export ADK_MEMORY_BACKEND=\"in_memory\"

export ADK_MEMORY_BACKEND=\"vertex\"
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=\"your-gcp-project\"
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=\"us-central1\"
export ADK_AGENT_ENGINE_ID=\"your-agent-engine-id\"
```

Set `ADK_PRELOAD_MEMORY=true` to preload memories into the context automatically.

## Live Metrics Backend
`system_health` can query Prometheus or VictoriaMetrics generically. Set one of:
- `METRICS_BACKEND_URL`
- `PROMETHEUS_URL`
- `VICTORIAMETRICS_URL`

Optional auth:
- `METRICS_BEARER_TOKEN`

Optional per-metric query overrides:
- `METRIC_QUERY_CPU_USAGE_PERCENT`
- `METRIC_QUERY_MEMORY_USAGE_PERCENT`
- `METRIC_QUERY_DISK_USAGE_PERCENT`
- `METRIC_QUERY_NETWORK_IO_MBPS`
- `METRIC_QUERY_REQUEST_P95_MS`
- `METRIC_QUERY_ERROR_RATE_PERCENT`

Example:
```bash
export METRICS_BACKEND_URL="http://your-prometheus:9090"
export METRICS_BEARER_TOKEN="your-token-if-needed"
```

## Structure
- `agents/`: Agent implementations organized by layer
- `shared/`: Shared models, tools, and utilities
- `secops_platform/`: Non-ADK services (orchestrator, API, security)
- `config/`: Environment settings and policy files
- `deployment/`: Kubernetes, Helm, Terraform, Docker
- `docs/`: Architecture and integration docs

## Notes
- Set `ADK_MODEL` to override the default model (`gemini-2.5-flash-lite`).
- Agent definitions and instructions are Python-only under `agents/` (no YAML mirror).
- Extend each agent’s tools to integrate real data sources and actions.
- Output contracts are defined in `0VRW4TCH/shared/models/contracts.py` and used by root/system-health prompts for standardized JSON responses.
